UC Merced and Computer Science and Engineering

As students of the most recent UC campus, I'd like some responses for the following things:

Why'd you go all the way to UC Merced considering it's out in the middle of California?

What's the best thing about the university? What's the worst thing about the university?

How social is this university considering that there's 8,000 or so people attending it.

For the CSE majors, I'd like to know what your opportunities are as a Computer Science and Engineering student. I'd like to know about your internship opportunities and employment opportunities after graduating. I'd also like to know about the quality of your classes at UC Merced. Do you think that your instructors do a good job at teaching? Do you think that your classmates are good at helping each other out?

Thanks!

Hola_hola-Hola
Hello! I just wanted to talk about the CS program. Tbh, it is not the best. Many lectures used in some classes are outdated, and most professors focus on the theoretical parts of the clases instead of teaching us more technical skills used in the industry. However, there are also a few great professors that actually care about your technical growth. UC Merced is still a great school. It's small to find a mentor (professors, TAs, upperclassmen), and at the end it's up to the person to seek for career opportunities. I had the chance to intern at some places over the summer, and now a full-time opportunity once I graduate. At the end, it's up to the person I would say. I am pretty sure going to a school with a higher reputation makes it easier to attract recruiters. It will just be a little bit more difficult if you go to UCM.

u/Valuable-Peace8307 avatar
Valuable-Peace8307
I chose UCM as it was a brand new university and the 10th UC. I got to be a part of that first graduation in 07 so that was really cool. I’m from Sac so it was also about 2 hours from home which meant I could visit the parents in the weekend if I wanted to. I also really like rural and UCM was pretty rural.

I can’t answer about the best and worse if UCM now. But back then, the best was how small it was. That first semester we had 1500 students so we all recognized each other. The worst was the lack of classes and majors.

u/Sometimesialways avatar
Sometimesialways
I live nearby, so it just made financial sense to go here.

there’s enough social activity to feel stimulated but if you’re used to a bigger cities night life you will be disappointed. There’s always house parties nearby if you are into that but on campus, there’s lots of social clubs that run activities (smash club, bobcat gaming LANs, dance, sports)

As for CompSci teachers. They’re solid! I’ve liked nearly all my professors. Daniel was fantastic. It’s hard to get upper division courses sometimes due to not having a ton of people to teach them.

Excaliber_0001
Only option, regret 1000%

Free UC schooling; everything (my options only, don’t base any decisions off me)

I have a single friend :), again read 2 sub-note lol

CSE 120 is a really cool class we have where we get partnered up into groups and work with real life entities, basically like a real life, actually might be used Project for some companies around the Central Valley and Bay Area Instructors are A1, love them and appreciate them, they put in good work so that we can benefit immensely And no info on the classmates portion 🤠

u/ilianaasadee avatar
ilianaasadee
Was it really bad ? Would you have rather gone to a community college instead?

Excaliber_0001
Well due to personal troubles before going here, they influenced me to get stuck with the wrong crowd, which happens not just here anywhere else you go, but looking back now, I say they are learning experiences, and I would have gone to community college simply because I have a heavy active role in my home life so it would have been best to stay near my home

lilspookyhuff
The financial aid package is amazing. Free college at a UC? Pretty good deal.

The people are very diverse and it’s so much fun to hear different stories from al different kinds of people. Worst thing is the location. Absolutely the location.

Right now in coronavirus times, it’s very hard to make friends because everyone tends to stay in their dorms and there aren’t many people in the first place. But if you happen to be the outgoing type, it’ll be easy to talk to anyone. I’ve heard that when the school is fully open there are people everywhere and people are typically friendly.